
  = SubEthaSMTP User Stories = 

 
This page lists people who have  emailed us to 
share their experiences with SubEthaSMTP.


 

 == RealMetrics ==
 
We systematically test service providers to publish objective reports
on reliability, performance, and customer service at www.realmetrics.com.
We'll be launching a new Email Hosting category soon where we systematically
test email hosts by sending emails frequently and measuring the % delivered
(ideally 100% always) and measure the time it takes to deliver the message.
We have five monitoring servers distributed around the country sending these
emails and we are running the SubEthaSMTP server to receive the emails.  We
are currently gathering data on the email hosting providers and plan to
launch the new Email Hosting category soon.   We'll be sending about 1.5
million emails through SubEthaSMTP every month (all from/to our own
domains). --Kent Johnson (Co-Founder + Chief Technology Officer @ RealMetrics)


 == Mr. Sahnwaldt ==
 
Hi guys,

I just wanted to send a huge THANK YOU to everyone involved in the
creation of SubEtha SMTP. I've been looking for something this for
months!

We're building a web services framework that also needs to send and 
receive emails. The sending is ok - but before Wiser, we couldn't write
unit tests to make sure that we got the encoding right etc. (Dumbster 
can't even handle attachments.) So we wrote a program that sends mails
with many different encodings - and checked by hand if they looked ok...
silly.

With Wiser, it took ten lines of code to start a server and grab the 
received mails. Another ten dealing with MimeMessage to check that the
content is ok. Great!

And for receiving mail... we managed to start an instance of James 
from within our webapp, but that has been a total nightmare, is full 
of hacks and far from properly integrated. We started thinking about
implementing our own SMTP server... but then we found SubEtha SMTP. 
We haven't started to integrate it yet, but when I look at the code, 
I expect it to be a breeze.

As you say on your home page:
This should be the LAST FREAKING JAVA SMTP IMPLEMENTATION. 
Amen.

Thank you. This is great stuff. Thanks.

Cheers,
Christopher Sahnwaldt



